the very best salesperson for your
business is probably not what you expect
actually it's your website hey i'm sam
dunning
co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com and
host of the top 100 marketing podcast
business growth show all right so i want
to start with a quick story
and i'm sure many of you have been in a
similar situation so a few months back
a sales professional they dropped me a
cold message i think it was on linkedin
and they piqued my interests with their
product and convinced me to hop on a
sales call demo with them
for 30 minutes booked in jumped on it
was on zoom
all got in did the intros and then um
the sales rep just started going on
and on and on and on and on all about
their product
their service how great their company is
how many awards they've won
how brilliant they are just how awesome
they are and started reeling off about
100 different features
their product offered and i was near the
point of falling asleep
it got to about five minutes in i
couldn't take any more i had to cancel
the demo there and then
i said look i don't think it's me a
great fit you haven't take the time to
understand anything about our business
and you're just ruling off 100 features
we're going to have to wish you all the
best
and that's it so basically the sales rep
took no time to ask me any questions
learn anything about our business who we
serve what we offer
what kind of results we'd be looking for
they just wanted to talk all about how
great they were
which is ultimately a turn off for
anyone
and it's not the way to go about
business
and this is a prime example of how
not to be a sales rep alright so let's
link this into
how it all fits within with your website
and how your website can be the best
sales person for your business let's
start with something slightly
controversial because it could be your
best but it can also be
your very worst on the flip side so
let's dive into that a bit deeper
so just like my terrible sales call
where all the sales rep wanted to do was
talk about himself his product and how
great the company was
and eventually just sent me to sleep and
caused me to cancel the demo
your website can be pretty similar to
this giving a poor experience so
some examples of this is your website
can just purely talk about how great
your
product is so just say look we do x y
and z we're brilliant at this we're
awesome at this
it just talks about how many awards
you've won which yeah it's no problem
having that on your website but it
shouldn't be the focus point so you
shouldn't just pop on about
we've won all these awards we've got all
these accreditations we're so awesome
we've got these huge new offices
because people don't really care about
what you've done they care about what's
in it for them which we'll dive into a
bit more
depth in a sec it gives a poor
experience so perhaps
on a website side of things your website
is really slow to load
perhaps as a poor navigation perhaps it
doesn't work well on mobile tablets or
pc perhaps the design is really poor
and it's just a chore to navigate around
and perhaps
it's just not focused on it all clients
it's trying to appeal to everyone and
anyone
and in the end it appeals to absolutely
no one just giving a terrible
experience that causes you to step up
step away from the website and head to a
competitor just like i did with that
sales rep i mentioned in the story
earlier
on the other on the other end of the
stick it could be your very best sales
person which is what you want to go for
as your website for your business so it
gives an enjoyable experience
the website loads lightning quick it
works amazing on mobile
tablet and pc it helps answer common
questions that people come to you with
each and every week so they don't have
to call you up or email you to ask them
it provides useful resources so perhaps
it's got blog articles it's got
useful guides maybe podcasts maybe
useful videos
maybe it's got other assets that you can
access so again you don't have to call
someone it's all there on the website
to give people the answers they need to
get trust to learn more to do that job
better
or without having to chat to you just
yet it talks rather than just
reeling a hundred thousand benefits or
features rather
it talks about problems that you fix the
problems people come to with each and
every week
the website talks about how it fixes
those problems how it makes your life
your business
all better for the greater good it
utilizes social proof so just like great
salespeople when you're talking to a
salesperson perhaps they'll reference
case studies
similar clients they've helped or
examples your website can do the same
with testimonials reviews
case study videos and all that good
stuff and throughout your pages to layer
up those trust
utilize reviews testimonials etc to
help people get more confidence your
brand and your ability to deliver
it's not just designed for anyone so it
is geared completely towards your ideal
customer
so it's designed with them in mind to
give them a great experience
and most of all just like a brilliant
sales rep it's really easy to do
business with them
so your website makes it nice and easy
to instead of sign the contract to
either buy
to fill out a contact form to give you a
call
drop me an email use live chat makes it
really seamless
to get in touch with you and ultimately
it's the best possible sales
professional you could ever hope for the
other thing to consider
is that your website is an asset so most
websites unless they are rented on some
kind of rented
pay monthly solution it's something that
you fully own so it's something you want
to
showcase in the best way possible
and unlike any sales rep a lot of people
will be working perhaps monday to friday
nine to five or some people a bit more
your website is live 24 7 monday
through to monday seven days a week
unlike any sales rep so it's constantly
in front of idle customers especially if
you're marketing it
so follow these tips we've mentioned to
make it the best sales rep for your
business ultimately drive more leads
more sales
more revenue more cash in your bank to
grow your business and there you have it
that is how your website can be your
very best sales professional i hope you
found these tips useful
as always if you enjoyed it do hit that
subscribe button with that
i'll catch you on the next episode